2004 Grozny stadium bombing

The 2004 Grozny stadium bombing occurred on 9 May 2004 when a bomb exploded in the Dynamo stadium in the Chechen capital, Grozny, killing 10 people including the republic's president Akhmad Kadyrov and another 100 people were wounded.

 Kadyrov's election was considered by many to be by a fraudulent vote.

 The explosion was caused by a bomb planted underneath the concrete floor of the VIP podium and occurred at 10:35am during a parade and concert in Groznyy celebrating the 59th anniversary of the victory of Germany in World War 2.

 The blast tore a hole in the section designated for dignitaries.

 It was not clear if the explosion was specifically targeting Kadyrov or whether it would have occurred regardless of his presence, as he was not officially scheduled to be at this event.

 Khussein Isayev, chairman of the Republic's state council, and Adlan Khasanov, a reported for Reuters, were also killed in the blast.

 Col. Gen. Valery Baranov, the commander of the Russian military in the northern Caucasus was gravely wounded.

 Although estimates of total casualties varied, at least ten people were killed and around fifty more injured.

 The numbers include many civilians and WW2 veterans who were also attending the celebrations.

 Officials believe that the blast was detonated by remote control and was intentionally installed below the VIP section.

 The bomb may have been planted some time ago during the recent renovations to the stadium.

 Preliminary reports suggest that the bomb was equivalent to one ton of TNT.

 The location of the bomb made it impossible for existing equipment to detect.

 The type of explosive appeared identical to one used to blow up the military parade two years ago in the Dagestani city of Kaspiysk.

 Rescue workers prevented two other blasts in the stadium.

 They were able to defuse another landmine and an additional explosive device equipped with a timer set to go off 30 minutes after the first explosion.