Amri language

Amri, or Dumura Karbi, is spoken by the Karbi people of Assam and Meghalaya.

 The Dumura Karbi language is also called Arleng Alam or "Ili Lam" meaning 'Our language' by the speakers.

 And the Assamese Language speaking people call it Mikir Bhakha.

 Latin script is used for institutional practice, but authors use both Latin and Assamese script in various publications.

 The speakers consider their speech as a variety of the Karbi language.

N.B. Amri word is accepted by few Karbi Peoples only.

 But majority of people of Karbi does not accept this Amri nomenclature for the said language.

 Because the Amri Kingdom is situated inside the Karbi Anglong district of Assam.

 But said language is spoken by peoples of Dumura Recho kingdom which is situated outside Karbi Anglong district.

 So majority of people don't accept Amri nomenclature.

 The first published book of this language is Arleng Karbi Rat Abhakha Akitap written by Monuram Karkun(Kam Phangcho), in 1955.

 In 1984 Pinkit Alun is published by AKBKA (Amri Karbi Baptist Kachikruk Ason.

 It is a collection of gospel songs of christian religion (Baptist).

 After this lots of literary works are practiced in Magazines.

 A few poetry and song books are also found.

 In 2003 Bhayam Karbi Byakaran written by Biren Keleng is published.

 In this book he makes a narrative discussion on phonology, morphology and syntax of this language.

 In 2003 Karbi Alam Kachirli Alo is published by Sonapur College, Sonapur.

 This is a text book of Karbi(Dumura Karbi) language for three months certificate course of the MONURAM KARKUN TEACHING AND RESEARCH CENTRE FOR TRIBAL LANGUAGE AND CULTURE.

 In 2004 Ret Kinong by Sar Rajendra Tumung is published by Reception Committee of 16th annual Conference of Karbi Lammet Amei held on 28th January 2004 at Rechohidi, Bakalia, Karbi Anglong.

 It is a collection of Kamrupi(Dumura Karbi) folk songs and mantras of worshiping god and godesses.

 In 2013 Dumurali Karbi Bhasa, by Dayaram Kathar is published.

 This is a vocabulary books.

 The language had a news paper Adap Arni published by Karbi Lamme Amei, Kamrup District Committee.

 Now it is out of publication.

 Ranjendra Tumung and Manik Teron write and publish a dictionary on this language.

 After 1977 the Amri words is used mistakenly by few political leaders.

 Since then there is silent community war is observed within the people of this language speakers.

 Only by few christian religious books authors and their followers use the Amri words in their books.

 Which becomes an obstacle to develop this language.

 At present it has a quarterly magazine named as Worjul aSi.

 In this magazine it is seen to prefer Arleng Alam for this language instead of Amri and Dumurali.