Anthony L. Grande

Anthony Grande is an American businessman and former State of Tennessee Commissioner of Economic Development.

 Also known as Tony Grande, he was born in Corona, CA on September 6, 1969.

 He attended Notre Dame High school in Riverside County, CA.

 After high school, Grande continued his education at American University in Washington, D.C. where he graduated with a bachelor's degree in Broadcast Journalism.

 Tony Grande continued to live in D.C. and work for the Republican National Committee as a speechwriter.

 After accumulating work experience, Grande moved to Nashville, TN where he attended Vanderbilt University's Peabody School of Education receiving a master's degree in human and organizational development.

 While working toward his degree, he also ran Steve Gill's (Republican) 6th district congressional campaign in both '94 and '96.

 After Grande's graduation, he continued living in Nashville where, in 1998, he became the youngest individual to claim the position of Tennessee's Commissioner of Economic and Community Development (ECD).

 In this position he led recruitment and expansion of business to the state, including Nissan and Bridgestone, managed an 85 million dollar budget, oversaw 200 employees, and worked directly with the former governor of Tennessee, Don Sundquist.

 In 2003, Grande moved out of public office and into the private sector with the newly created position of Vice President of State Customer Relations with Core Civic, previously known as Corrections Corporation of America.

 Grande worked his way up the chain of command until 2008 when he reached his current status of Executive Vice President and Chief Development Officer.

 He works nationally and internationally to create business opportunities for not just private prisons but also re-entry programs and alternatives to corrections.

 Along with Core Civic, Grande works on the board of "You Have The Power" organization, which gives a voice to victims of violent crime and abuse, and "Boys and Girls Club" of Tennessee.

 Tony Grande currently lives with his wife and two daughters.