Chelangatt Gopalakrishnan

Chelangatt Gopalakrishnan (June 6, 1932 - June 4, 2010) was born in Cherthala Alappuzha dist.

 in Kerala to Sri Nediyedathu Kesava Pillai and Thrikkeparambil Ammukkutti Amma.

 After graduation, he started his career as a journalist in a regional newspaper; Malayali.

 Later he worked for some other newspapers including Mathrubhumi.

 During this time, he established his own name in the film journalism.

 Several forgotten personalities including J.C. Daniel, the father of Malayalam Cinema, have been disclosed before readers and public by him.

 During this time he had released several books.

 Most of them are about cinema and its history.

 The historical narrations of cinema have been started from the birth of world cinema till the contemporary Malayalam films.

 The renowned Malayalam Film Maker Adoor Gopalakrishnan in his book Cinemayude Lokam, which won many awards including the award from Government of India says ; "The history of Malayalam Cinema is not started with stars born with fortunes, from sky.

 But, it is the tearful story of some, who experimented with their lives and assets.

 Most of the experiments had been tragedies.

 We got that history from the articles written by Chelangatt Gopalakrishnan.

 S. Guptan Nair called Chelangatt Gopalakrishnan, the Chief Architect of Malayalam Film Literature and Journalism.

 He was in the Kerala State Film Awards Jury for several years.

 Many books related with novel, biographies, history and technical aspects of film making have been written by him.

 He had run a film studio named 'Ajanta Studio' at Aluva.

 Many classical films including 'Olavum Theeravum' written by M.T. Vasudevan Nair have been filimized at this studio.

 He had written more than 20 books about cinema alone.

 Vincent Muthal Vincent Vare, Mukhathodu Mukham, The History of World Cinema, The History of Indian Cinema, The History of Malayalam Cinema, The History of Film Persons in Kerala, The History of Malayalam Journalism etc., are few among them.

 He was a regular writer about many of the prominent periodicals in Malayalam language.