David M. Gilbert

David M. Gilbert is J. Herbert Taylor Distinguished Professor of Molecular Biology in the Department of Biological Science and Co-founder and Associate Director of the Center for Genomics and Personalized Medicine at Florida State University.

 Gilbert’s work focuses on the mechanisms regulating DNA replication during the cell cycle and the relationship between DNA replication and structural and functional organization of chromosomes, most recently during differentiation in human and mouse embryonic stem cells and in pediatric leukemia.

 Gilbert received his BA degrees in Biochemistry/Cell Biology and Philosophy from the University of California, San Diego and his PhD in Genetics from Stanford University.

 He did two post-doctoral training periods, first as an EMBO Fellow with Pierre Chambon in Strasbourg, France, studying transcriptional control, and second as a Roche Fellow with Melvin DePamphilis studying replication origin recognition.

 He joined the faculty at State University of New York (SUNY) Upstate Medical University in 1994 and was appointed full professor in 2003.

 In 2006, he moved to Florida State University for his current endowed chair position and was elected as a fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) in 2008 and then elected as a council delegate of the AAAS in 2010, as well as to the American Society of Hematology in 2013 and the International Society for Stem Cell Research in 2014.

 Gilbert’s other awards include the American Cancer Society Junior Faculty Research Award (2000), the SUNY President’s Young Investigator Award (2002), the NIH Career Enhancement Award for Stem Cell Research (2004) Florida State University Distinguished Research Professor (2015) and the Pfeiffer Endowed Professorship for Cancer Research (2015).

 He is a principal investigator in the NIH Encyclopedia of DNA Elements (ENCODE) Consortium and is a board member of the Southeast Stem Cell Consortium (SESCC).

 He has served on American Cancer Society (1996–2004) and NIH study sections (1997–present) and is an editorial member of the Epigenetics Society and is on the editorial board of the Journal of Cell Biology.

 He also maintains ReplicationDomain, a free online database resource for storing, sharing and visualizing DNA replication timing and other chromosome mapping data.