Forever by Your Side (album)

Forever by Your Side is the 13th studio album of American popular R&B vocal group the Manhattans, originally released in 1983 by Columbia Records.

 The album was recorded at Celestial Sound Studios (New York, NY), Studio Sound Recorders (North Hollywood), Universal Recording Studio (Chicago, III) and produced by George Tobin Productions Inc, Leo Graham Enterprises, Mighty M. Productions Ltd.

 This album brought the two singles by The Manhattans of 1983: the song "Crazy" and the title track "Forever by Your Side".

 The ballad "Crazy" was the big hit of this album, peaked at #4 on the R&B chart.

 The love song "Forever by Your Side" had moderate success in the United States, peaked at #30 on the R&B chart, but has become a great success and a romantic classic in Brazil two years later, when she was part of the soundtrack of a soap opera in the country in 1985.

 The success made "Forever by Your Side" gain a Portuguese version the following year, called "Pra Sempre Vou Te Amar", which also was successful in Brazil and was recorded by several Brazilian artists.

 Another highlight of this album was the song "Just The Lonely Talking Again", which was later re-recorded by Whitney Houston in 1987, on her second studio album "Whitney".

 The original release of ""Forever by Your Side"" from 1983 in Vinyl LP has only eight tracks.

 In 2014, the album was remastered on CD with the caption ""Expanded Edition"" and brought five bonus tracks, totaling 13 tracks.

 These bonus tracks include the single version of "Crazy", "Just The Lonely Talking Again" and "Love Is Gonna Find You", with shorter durations than the original songs on the album.

 There is also the instrumental version of great success "Crazy", without the voices of The Manhattans.

 The final track number 13, "Lovin' You Did not Come Easy", was also recorded by The Manhattans, but, curiously, was never released in any album of the group.

 The song was released this 2014 remaster as an previously unreleased song, over thirty years after it was recorded.