Interrupting Chicken

"Interrupting Chicken’s" plot has a repetitive nature, with a humorous story line and a good underlying message.

 The story begins with little red chicken’s bedtime.

 Little red chicken’s calm, patient father is referred to as “Papa.”

 Papa is getting little red chicken settled for bed.

 Little red chicken eagerly suggests reading a bedtime story.

 Papa often refers to how little red chicken regularly interrupts bedtime stories before they are finished.

 Papa informs little red chicken that she should not interrupt the story like past experiences, little red chicken promises to “be good tonight”(4).

 "Interrupting chicken" includes other classic children’s books such as: "Hansel and Gretel"," Little Red Riding Hood" and "Chicken Little".

 Papa begins by kindly reading "Hansel and Gretel" to little red chicken.

 Before reaching the end of the story little red chicken interrupts the story!

 The images show little red chicken in the story of "Hansel and Gretel" and she is yelling, “don’t go in she’s a witch!”

 which results to a sudden end to the story(18).

 Little Red chicken appears to be absolutely delighted with her decision to step in and save the day while her father was not so impressed.

 Papa addresses little red chicken's behavior and she promises not to engage in such activity for the next story.

 Papa begins by reading "Little Red Riding Hood".

 Before Papa could get through the story little Red chicken jumps in once again and informs Little Red Riding Hood that she is not to talk to strangers.

 Papa begins to become tired and informs little red chicken that she should not be interrupting because the purpose of bedtime stories is to make her sleepy.

 Little red chicken defends herself by saying “he was a mean old wolf.”

(18).

 Little red chicken convinces Papa to read another story, this time, "Chicken Little".

 Little red chicken once again jumps into to solve the problem.

 Papa is becoming exhausted and little red chicken is upset because there are no more stories to read.

 Little red chicken believes she cannot go to bed without a story.

 Papa suggests that little red chicken tell him a story.

 Little red chicken loves the idea and climbs into bed, yawning and tired.

 Little red chicken then writes a story about reading stories for bedtime until she realizes papa has fallen asleep!

 The story ends with little red chicken saying “good night, Papa” and the last picture shows both of them cuddled up happily in bed(40).