Jourian

Jourian Town was established by Sh Mustafa Khan, Jagirdhar of RakhDhok which is approximately 5 to 6 km north of Jourian.

 The Jagirdhar had their land limit up to Jourian which is north side of mighty River Chenab is plain and fertile as compare to Rakhdhok which is Kandi Area and less fertile.

 In 1903, the north Punjab was engulfed with the havoc of plague and it also effected adjoining areas.

 It was in the end of Apr /Beginning of May 1903 when there was a big rain falls with hailstorms (Aan)which destroyed the wheat crops resulting the rats died insides the huts/kacha houses with the results plague spread.

 The GrandMother of Sh Mustafa Khan came to Jourian where they have already a temporary (Kula) Shelter in order to avoid havoc of plague.

 The temporary shelter came into permanent shelter as the land of Jourian was more fertile and near the River, so there was no scarcity of water.

 Sh Mustafa Khan constructed the pucca Well few feet east of Masjid near to his house and decided to live at Jourian.

 That was the beginning of a town which is called Jourian.

 Later, when it was felt by young Sh Mustafa Khan to create the Jourian a Town.

 He called Shri Nand Shah(Father of Bhagwan Shah),Father of Munshi Shah,Roulu Shah (father of Krishan Shah, Ganesh,Rama,Kaindu and Rattan) from Kaleeth to settle at Jourian and start business.

 Shri Nand Shah was the friend of Sh Mustafa Khan.

 Sh Nandu Bhagat, Lambardar who also belongs from Rakhdhok shifted to Jourian on the request of Sh Mustafa Khan.

 It is very interesting that our Patwar is Rakhdhok though Patwari office is in Jourian.

 Sh Moti Bhagat Father of Sh Shatu Ram, Sh Sangaru, Sh Guran Ditta and Sh Khikru called from Ajjal Mallal.

 Sh Nanku Bhagat Father of Sh Kartar Chand also from Panjigrain was called to settle at Jourian.

 Sh Manna Ram Chamar father of Munshi Ram from Potha which is hardly less than 2 km was also called to settle at Jourian.

 Sh Ishwar Dass and Badri Nath called from Setrial.

 Sh Nanku Mahajan Father of Sh Banarsi and Birta Ram also called from Potha.

 Sh Billo and Basanata Lohar were called from Chamb.

 Some Banias which are still called Bakoria came from Bakore.

 In addition to this Nandu Barawala also called from Gher.

 Jourian town and a notified area committee in Jammu district in the Indian state of Jammu and Kashmir.