Nichole Nordeman discography

American singer-songwriter Nichole Nordeman has released four studio albums, one live album, four compilation albums, one extended play, one soundtrack album, eighteen singles, and three music videos.

 In 1998, after winning a contest sponsored by the Gospel Music Association, Nordeman was signed to Star Song Communications and Sparrow Records and began to work on her debut studio album, "Wide Eyed".

 The album was released on September 1998 and entered the "Billboard" Christian Albums and "Billboard" Heatseekers Albums charts at number 16 and 29, respectively, both of which marked her chart debut.

 "Wide Eyed" spawned four singles, "To Know You," "Who You Are," "I Wish the Same", and "Wide Eyed", and has sold 130,000 copies in the United States.

 In May 2000, Nordeman released her second studio album, "This Mystery", which charted on the "Billboard" Christian Albums chart at 12.

 Three singles, "This Mystery," "Fool For You" and "Every Season", were released from "This Mystery".

 Nordeman's third studio album, "Woven & Spun", was released on September 2002.

 The album entered the "Billboard" 200 chart at number 136 and at the "Billboard" Christian Albums chart at number five.

 All three of "Woven & Spun"' s singles, "Holy", "Legacy", and "Even Then", became top forty hits on the "Billboard" Christian Songs chart.

 "Holy" spent 10 weeks at number one on the Christian AC radio charts.

 In May 2003, Nordeman released her first live album, "Live at the Door", which was recorded at The Door music venue in Dallas, Texas.

 In May 2005, she released her fourth studio album, "Brave".

 The album entered the "Billboard" 200 chart at number 119 and at the "Billboard" Christian Albums chart at number two, marking Nordeman's career highest charting debut.

 Its lead single and title track became her first "Billboard" number one hit on the "Billboard" Christian Songs chart, while its two succeeding singles, "What If" and "Real to Me", became top twenty hits on the chart.