Ruchir Puri

Ruchir Puri is the chief architect of IBM Watson, responsible for developing and deploying Watson platform architecture across the range of Watson offerings.

 He is an IBM Fellow at IBM Thomas J Watson Research Center, Yorktown Heights, New York.

 In the past, Ruchir has led the Deep Learning and Machine Learning Platform Initiative at IBM Research to advance IBM’s cognitive cloud platform vision and also led IBM's efforts in software-hardware acceleration for cognitive and analytic workloads and driven strategy for differentiated cognitive computing infrastructure.

 Puri has received numerous accolades including the highest technical position at IBM, the IBM Fellow, which was awarded for his transformational role in microprocessor design methodology.

 In addition, Puri has received “Best of IBM” awards in both 2011 and 2012 and IBM Corporate Award from IBM’s CEO, and several IBM Outstanding Technical Achievement awards.

 Puri is a Fellow of the IEEE, a member of IBM Academy of Technology and IBM Master Inventor, an ACM Distinguished Speaker and IEEE Distinguished Lecturer.

 He is a recipient of SRC's outstanding mentor award and has been a visiting faculty member at the Dept. of Computer Science, Stanford University, CA, and an adjunct professor at the Dept. of Electrical Engineering, Columbia University, NY and was also honored with John Von-Neumann Chair at Institute of Discrete Mathematics at Bonn University, Germany.

 Ruchir received the 2014 Asian American Engineer of the Year Award.

 He has delivered numerous keynotes and invited talks at major software and hardware conferences, National Science Foundation and US Department of Defense Research panels and has been an editor of IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems.

 Puri is an inventor of over 50 United States patents (both issued and pending) and has authored over 100 publications as well as authored a book on Analyzing Analytics.

 Ruchir is very passionate about technology among school children and has been evangelizing fun with electronics and FIRST LEGO LEAGUE Robotics in community schools.