T1 tanker

The T1 tanker or T1 are a class of sea worthy small tanker ships used to transport fuel oil before and during World War II, Korean War and Vietnam War.

 The T1 tanker classification is still in use today.

 T1 tankers are about 200 to 250 feet in length and are able to sustain a top speed of about 12 knots.

 The hull designation "AO" is used by the US Navy to denote the ship is a T1 oil tanker and "AOG" that the T1 is a gasoline tanker.

 The small size allows the T1 to enter just about any sea port or to anchor around a small island, this was very useful during the Pacific War.

 The T1 tanker can carry about 48,000 to 280,000 BBLs.

 Some T1 tankers were used to transport goods other than oil, a few were used for black oil-crude oil, diesel, chemicals and rarely bulk cargo like grain.

 T1 tankers are also called liquid cargo carriers.

 The T1 tanker has about a 6,000 to 35,000 DWT of cargo.

 The small size also gives the ships short turn around time for repair, cleaning, loading and unloading.

 A T1 tanker carrying dirty cargo, like crude oil needs a few weeks of labor to clean before carrying clean cargo.

 Most T1 ships during World War II were named after major oil fields. T1 tanker are operated by the US Navy, War Shipping Administration and United States Maritime Commission.

 Some T1 were loaned to England in the Lend-Lease program for World War II, after the war most were returned to the USA.

 After World War II many of the T1 ships were sold to for civilian use.

 Each T1 had emergency life rafts on the boat deck.

 The ships had cargo booms and piping to load and unload fuel.

 During war time the T1 are armed for protection with deck guns.

 A typical ship may have one single 3"/50 dual purpose gun, two 40 mm guns and three single Oerlikon 20 mm cannon.

 A T1 at war time normally had a crew of 38 and up to 130.

 If operating as a United States Merchant Marine ship, the crew would be a mix of civilian Merchant Marines and United States Navy Armed Guards to man the guns.