V. N. Rajasekharan Pillai

Prof. V. N. Rajasekharan Pillai (; born 20 October 1949) is President of Mewar University, Chiittorgarh, Rajasthan, India.

 Concurrently he serves as the Honorary President of the Human Development Foundation India, a Civil Society Organisation in the National Capital Region, New Delhi.

 He was Executive Vice-President of the Kerala State Council for Science, Technology and Environment, Govt of Kerala during the period 2011-2014.

 Simultaneously he held positions as the Principal Secretary, Science & Technology Dept of the Govt of Kerala, Chairman of the Kerala Coastal Zone Management Authority and the Kerala Biotechnology Commission.

 Prior to that Prof. Pillai was the Vice-Chancellor of the Indira Gandhi National Open University ( IGNOU ), New Delhi ( 2006-2011) holding simultaneously the position of the Chairman, Distance Education Council, Govt of India.

 He served as Vice-Chairman & Chairman of the University Grants Commission, Govt of India, New Delhi during the period 2003-2006.

 He was the Executive Director of the National Assessment and Accreditaition Council ( NAAC), Govt of India, during the period 2000-2003.

 Prior to that Prof. V. N. Rajasekharan Pillai was the Vice-Chancellor of the Mahatma Gandhi University, Kottayam, Govt of Kerala and held additional charge of the Cochin University of Science and Technology (1996-2000).

 In 2000 he was on a Visiting Research Professor assignment in the University of Lausanne, Switzerland.

 From 1983 to 1986, Dr. Pillai worked in various academic and research executive positions in the Mahatma Gandhi University, Kottayam such as the Founder Professor and Director of the School of Chemical Sciences, Dean of Faculty of Science, Founder Director of the School of Professional Distance Education, Director, College Development Council and Controller of Examinations of the University.

 During the period 1977-1983, Dr. Pillai worked as a Post-Doctoral Research Fellow, on deputation from Calicut University, Kerala, in the Universities of Tubigen and Mainz, Germany.

 From 1971 to 1983, he worked in the Universities of Kerala and Calicut University as UGC/CSIR Junor and Senior Research Fellow, Assistant Professor and Associate Professor in the area of Chemical Sciences.

 Professor Rajasekharan Pillai is an Elected Fellow of the Indian Academy of Sciences.

 Distinguished Fellow of the Kerala Academy of Sciences, and an Honorary Fellow of the Institution of Electronics and Telecommunication Engineers ( IETE), New Delhi.

 He was also a Fellow of the Royal Society of Chemistry and an Honorary Senior Fellow of the Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research, Banaglaore.