Al-Ca composite

Al-Ca composite is a high-conductivity, high-strength, lightweight composite consisting of sub-micron-diameter pure calcium metal filaments embedded inside a pure aluminium metal matrix.

 The material is still in the development phase, but it has potential use as an overhead high-voltage power transmission conductor.

 It could also be used wherever an exceptionally light, high-strength conductor is needed.

 Its physical properties make it especially well-suited for DC transmission.

 Compared with conventional conductors such as aluminium-conductor steel-reinforced cable (ACSR), all aluminium alloy conductors (AAAC), aluminium conductor alloy reinforced (ACAR), aluminium conductor composite reinforced ACCR and ACCC conductor that conduct AC current well and DC current somewhat less well (due to the skin effect), Al-Ca conductor is essentially a single uniform material with high DC conductivity, allowing the core strands and the outer strands of a conductor cable to all be the same wire type.

 This conductor is inherently strong so that there is no need for a strong (usually poorly conductive) core to support its own weight as is done in conventional conductors.

 This eliminates the "bird caging", spooling, and thermal fatigue problems caused by thermal expansion coefficient mismatch between the core and outer strands.

 The Al-Ca phase interfaces strengthen the composite substantially, but do not have a noticeable effect on restricting the mean free path of electrons, which gives the composite both high strength and high conductivity, a combination that is normally difficult to achieve with both pure metals and alloys.

 The high strength and light weight could reduce the number of towers needed per kilometer for long distance transmission lines.

 Since towers and their foundations often account for 50% of a powerline's construction cost, building fewer towers would save a substantial fraction of total construction costs.

 The high strength also could increase transmission reliability in wind/ice loading situations.

 The high conductivity has the potential to reduce Ohmic losses.