Anderson Mounds

Anderson Mounds, part of Mounds State Park and, located near Anderson, Indiana, is a burial site that developed out of the Hopewell culture.

 These earthworks were created as a dedication to the Sun God and Earth Mother, and the mounds were used as gathering places for religious ceremonies as well as viewing astronomical alignments.

 The Great Mound is the largest of the ten earthworks in the Mounds State Park, and its construction dates back between 250 and 160 B.C.

 The three floors of the Great Mound were created by a repeated process that included adding a layer of subsoil, burning the ground, then covering the floor in a layer of powdered white calcite, made from bone, shell, and limestone.

 This gave the floor a clay consistency as well as deep purple color.

 Each floor had basins and pits of unknown purposes, however near the gateway of the mound platform, a large pit was found containing various artifacts.

 These artifacts included chipped stone, flakes, burned bone, a fragment of shell, fragments of mica, and burned clay chunks.

 Built above this pit was a log tomb, called so because the floor of the tomb was laid with logs.

 When excavated, two human burials were found inside the tomb; a 50-year-old adult male, and the redeposited partial remains of a cremated individual.

 Also, artifacts such as a limestone platform pipe, flakes, fire-cracked rocks, mica fragments, pottery, burned and unburned bone, and seven deer bone awls were found in the tomb.

 100 years after the mound was started, the construction of the Great Mound's platform was started.

 Although the embankment appears random and irregular, it was actually carefully crafted.

 The only other aboriginal features on the platform were numerous small post holes encircling the top.

 These holes most likely held a brush fence erected to hide activities carried out on the platform.

 After the mound was completed, several more pits were dug, some of them spanning from the surface to the lowest floor.

 One pit was possibly looted, while two other pits contained human burials.

 No other artifacts were found in these pits.

 (Cochran, McCord, 2001), (Vickery 1970).