Biblical accommodation

Biblical accommodation is the adaptation of words or sentences from the Bible to signify ideas different from those expressed therein.

 Thus, if a sinner excuses his fault by saying, "The serpent deceived me", he applies the scriptural words of Eve (Gen., iii, 13) to express an idea which the sentence does not convey in the Bible.

 Similarly, a blind person might use the words of Tob., v, 12, "What manner of joy shall be to me, who sit in darkness, and see not the light of heaven".

 Here, again, the words would have a meaning which they do not bear in Sacred Scripture.

 This accommodation is sometimes incorrectly styled the accommodated, or accommodative, sense of Scripture.

 From the definition it is clear that it is not a sense of Scripture at all.

 The possibility of such accommodation may arise, first, from some similarity between the ideas in the sacred text and the subject to which the passage is accommodated; secondly, from the fact that the words of Scripture may be understood in two different senses.

 The first is called extensive accommodation.

 Examples of it are found in the Church's offices, both in the Breviary and the Missal, when the praises bestowed by the Holy Ghost on Noe, Isaac, and Moses are applied to other saints.

 Thus the words of Ecclus., xxxii, 1, 5: "Have they made thee ruler?

 . . . hinder not music" are sometimes applied to College presidents assuming the burden of their office; we need not say that the words of Sacred Scripture have quite a different meaning.

 The second species of accommodation, called allusive, is often a mere play on words and at times seems due to a misunderstanding of the original meaning.

 The Vulgate text, "Mirabilis Deus in sanctis suis" (Ps., lxvii, 36) means, in the mouth of the Psalmist, that God is wonderful in His sanctuary (sancta, -orum).

 The Latin words may also be translated "God is wonderful in his saints" (sancti, -orum), and they are employed in this sense in the Missal.

 As this second signification was not intended by the inspired writer, the English rendering of the text in the Douay-Rheims version is a mistranslation.