Common discography

The discography of Common, an American hip hop recording artist, consists of eleven studio albums, two compilation albums, forty-nine singles (including fifteen as a featured artist) and twenty-nine music videos.

 It also contains the list of Common songs.

 Common sold more than 2.8 million albums in the United States.

 Common released his first album, "Can I Borrow a Dollar?

" (1992), and follow suit with his second album, "Resurrection", which met with critical acclaim, calling the album as one of the classic of the 90s.

 Common released his third album, "One Day It'll All Make Sense", which was a little commercial success, follow suit with his fourth album, "Like Water for Chocolate", which was met with critical acclaim from music critics, calling it the best rap album of the year.

 The album was also a commercial success certifying it gold by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA).

 His fifth studio album "Electric Circus" was met with acclaim from music critics.

 However, it failed to meet the commercial succes with "Like Water for Chocolate", which only peaked at number 47 on the US "Billboard" 200.

 In 2005, he was helped by Kanye West to release his 6th album "Be".

 Kanye produced the whole album and was featured on it a few times.

 The album helped Common to get back into the spotlight and sold 185,000 copies in its first week debuting at number 2 on the charts and also it was Common's first album to have commercial succes outside the US, peaking in several territories.

 The album was met with unniversal acclaim and it was described to be Common's best album.

 The album was certified gold by the RIAA.

 His next album "Finding Forever" peaked at number one on the "Billboard" 200 being his first chart-topper.

 His next album "Universal Mind Control"l sold 81,663 in its first week debuting only at number 12.

 The album was promoted by the successful single "Universal Mind Control" which peaked at number 62 on the "Billboard" Hot 100.

 The album was met with mixed reviews.

 His next album "The Dreamer/The Believer" was met with positive reviews from music critics and debuted at number 18 on the charts, selling 70,000 copies in its first week and was promoted by five singles.

 In 2014 Common released his 10th album "Nobody's Smiling" which peaked at number 6 on the charts and had features from Big Sean and Vince Staples and others.

 In 2015 he collaborated with John Legend on the single "Glory" which peaked at number 49 on the "Billboard" Hot 100.

 The single was from the film "Selma".