Garrett Madison

Garrett Madison (born November 3, 1978) is an American mountaineer and is one of the world's top high altitude mountaineering guides, having personally guided 44 clients to the summit of Mt Everest between the years 2006-2016, more than any other American.

 Garrett began guiding professionally in 1999 on Mount Rainier, and his company, Madison Mountaineering, specializes in leading expedition climbs on Mount Everest and other high altitude peaks, operates on the highest peaks on all seven continents (7 summits), and also provides domestic training programs and summit climbs in Washington State.

 On May 19–20, 2011, he reached the summit of Mt Everest on his fourth successful attempt as expedition leader and guide for Alpine Ascents International, and reached the summit of Lhotse (4th highest mountain in the world) only 21 hours later as guide to climber Tom Halliday.

 Also on the expedition was guide Michael Horst who made both summits as well in under a 24-hour period, a few days earlier.

 This historic achievement marks the first time in history that both peaks Mt Everest and Lhotse were summited together in less than 24 hours, and Madison repeated the "double header" feat again in 2013, the only person to do so twice.

 In 2014, Garrett led the first ever successfully ‘guided’ ascent of K2, arguably the hardest and most dangerous mountain in the world, reaching the summit with 2 climbers and 3 Sherpas on July 27, 2014.

 Garrett also regularly guides many "7 Summits" expeditions such as Aconcagua, Vinson Massif, Kilimanjaro, Elbrus, etc., during the year.

 In addition, Garrett is regularly involved with film productions on Everest, participating in 4 different features over the last 3 years.

 Most recently, Garrett Madison's company, Madison Mountaineering, successfully brought a virtual reality camera to the summit of Mt. Everest.

 This Capturing Everest will be released by Time Inc and Sports Illustrated and is expected to be released early 2017.