Hemant Batra

Hemant K. Batra (born 15 August 1967) is a Corporate, Business and Strategist commercial lawyer.

 He is the founder and Chairman of Kaden Boriss Global, a legal and business strategist organization of global law firms and offices.

 Kaden Boriss was founded in 2003 by international and business laws specialist lawyers Hemant Batra and Preeti Batra.

 The intellectual property rights (IPR) in the trade mark and copyright of legal brand Kaden Boriss (KB) vests with Hemant Batra Kaden Boriss was originally established as a partnership firm under the common law of the Indian partnership act but was later transformed into a newly set up regime of LLP.

 However, due to lack of clarity under the regulatory framework for lawyers and law firms, Kaden Boriss LLP reverted to its old structure under the older partnership law.

 It was also felt by the partners of Kaden Boriss that unless foreign direct investment was permitted in the Indian legal services sector, forming an LLP had hardly any added benefits.

 It also partnered with I-Inspire 2013, national conference for women leaders, aiming to be a confluence of ideas, a convergence of thoughts and celebration of the spirit of diversity and entrepreneurship.

 Hemant holds a position as the Secretary General of SAARCLAW (South Asian Association for Regional Co-operation in Law).

 SAARCLAW is a regional Apex body of SAARC (South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation).

 He is also the Chairperson of the Organizing Council of International Infrastructure & Construction Law Arbitration Moot (IICLAM) and Member of the Advisory Board of the Organisation for International Cooperation (OIC) based in New Jersey, USA.

 IICLAM is a joint initiative of Kaden Boriss, National University of Singapore (NUS) and Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC), Singapore.

 He is recipient of prestigious Mahatma Gandhi Seva Medal with other awardees being the Dalai Lama, then President of India Shri K. R. Narayanan,UPA Chairperson & President of INC Smt Sonia Gandhi and Speaker Lok Sabha Smt Meira Kumar.

 Batra is author of speaking threads a collection of his thought provoking quotes.

 The most popular being - Think twice before saying `yes' and just once before saying `no'.

 Hemant Batra took over as the Chairman of the prestigious panel of jury for the grant of Aces Awards for Corporate Excellence and Sustainability in Asia.