List of Red vs. Blue episodes

"Red vs. Blue", often abbreviated as "RvB", is a comic science fiction video web series created by Rooster Teeth Productions and distributed through the Internet and on DVD.

 The story centers on two opposing teams of soldiers fighting a civil war in the middle of a desolate box canyon (Blood Gulch), in a parody of first-person shooter (FPS) games, military life, and science fiction films.

 Initially intended to be a short series of six to eight episodes, the project quickly and unexpectedly achieved significant popularity following its Internet premiere on April 1, 2003.

 In its run, the series has had thirteen full seasons and five mini-series that extended the series' plot.

 The fifth season of the original " Blood Gulch Chronicles" series ended with episode 100, released on June 28, 2007.

 Three mini-series—"", "", and "" —and the three-part "Recollection" trilogy containing the full-length "" (2008), "" (2009) and "" (2010) series (Seasons 6-8) have extended the plot.

 The "Project Freelancer" saga began with "" (2011) and follows two separate stories: a continuation to the "Recollection" trilogy and a prequel set before the events of "The Blood Gulch Chronicles".

 The two stories are continued in two further mini-series - "" and "" - and concluded in "" (2012).

 Burnie Burns confirmed in "What's Trending" that the series will continue with "", which premiered on June 14, 2013; and Season 11 was later followed by "Season 12" and "Season 13".

 In 2016, "Season 14" was released as the first anthology season, consisting of several canon and non-canon stories created by in-house writers as well as several outside writers; Freddie Wong of RocketJump, Chris Roberson (creator of iZOMBIE), Ben Singer and Chad James of ScrewAttack (hosts of DEATH BATTLE!)

, Ernest Cline (author of Ready Player One and Armada), Arin Hanson and Dan Avidan of Game Grumps, etc. "Season 15" debuted in 2017, continuing the canonical story following the events of "Season 13".