Make a Smellmitment

Make a Smellmitment is an advertising campaign created by Wieden+Kennedy for Old Spice in the United States.

 The campaign is preceded by “The Man Your Man Could Smell Like" which was a television advertising campaign by Wieden+Kennedy for Old Spice.

 The "Make a Smellmitment" campaign retains much of the format from the previous campaign including its characters played by Isaiah Mustafa and Terry Crews.

 The content of the new campaign ads also consist of character monologues during long single shots while engaging in random activities and addressing the female audience.

 The inaugural commercial, titled “And So It Begins”, lasts 1:02 minutes and introduces returning Old Spice actors Isaiah Mustafa as well as Terry Crews.

 This advertising campaign markets Wild Collection Bearglove Men’s Body Wash and Timber Bar Soap.

 Isaiah Mustafa and Terry Crews returned in their recurring roles from previous Old Spice advertisements.

 Mustafa’s character (referred to as the “Old Spice Man”) continues to target women despite marketing hygiene products for men as it was determined that women often buy household products for men.

 Terry Crews also reprised his Old Spice character that targets the male audience as he is always screaming and breaking things.

 The theme of the campaign focuses on the contrast between the smooth-talking monologues by Isaiah Mustafa and screaming Terry Crews interrupting each other as they advertise Old Spice Timber and Bearglove respectively.

 The commercials usually end with the two men each holding up their respective products side by side and pointing at them with Crews repeatedly yelling “Bearglove!”

 and Mustafa eventually saying “stop it”.

 "The point of it is more than just bringing two guys together.

 It's about helping people who think about or use Old Spice pick the scent that best fits their personality by connecting scents with the personalities of Isaiah and Terry", said John Sebastian, marketing director for Old Spice.