Nairi Sedrakyan

Nairi Sedrakyan (born 1961 in Ninotsminda, USSR) is an Armenian mathematician involved in national and international Olympiads of mathematics, having been the president of Armenian Mathematics Olympiads, the Leader of Armenian IMO Team, jury member and problem selection committee member of International Mathematical Olympiad, jury member and problem selection committee member of Zhautykov International Mathematical Olympiad (ZIMO), jury member and problem selection committee member of the 1st International Olympiad of Metropolises, the president of International Mathematical Olympiad Tournament of the Towns in Armenia.

 He has also authored a large number of problems proposed in these Olympiads.

 Nairi Sedrakyan is the author of one of the hardest problems ever proposed in the history of International Mathematical Olympiad, 5th problem of 37th International Mathematical Olympiad.

 This problem is considered as one of the hardest problems ever, because none of the members of the strongest teams, i.e. National Olympic Teams of the USA, Russia or China has succeeded to solve it correctly.

 Moreover, the National Olympic Team of People's Republic of China has obtained a cumulative result equal to 0 points and was ranked the 6th in the final ranking of the countries instead of the usual 1st or 2nd place.

 The British 2014 film X+Y, released in the USA as A Brilliant Young Mind, inspired by, Beautiful Young Minds focuses on an English mathematical genius chosen to represent the United Kingdom at the IMO.

 In the film this problem is stated to be the hardest problem ever proposed in the history of International Mathematical Olympiad (minutes 9:40-10:30).

 Other outstanding results of the author are having 4 problems in the Shortlist of the worldwide selected 27 problems of the 40th IMO (1999) in Romania and having 5 medals winner students in 41st IMO in South Korea, i.e. 2 silver medals and 3 bronze medals.

 Moreover, only 1 point was missing for Sevak Mkrtchyan to obtain a Gold Medal (currently he is an assistant professor of mathematics in United States, Sevak received his PhD in mathematics from University of California, Berkley).

 Nevertheless, Arthur Barkhoudarian, one of the first students of Nairi Sedrakyan has received a Gold Medal in International Mathematical Olympiad, later on Arthur received his PhD degree in mathematics from Charles University in Prague.

 As all winner students were from the same school, where Nairi Sedrakyan was teaching mathematics, the government of the Republic of Armenia gave to the author the title of the best teacher of the Republic of Armenia and he received a special gift from the Prime Minister.