Prashant Kishor

Prashant Kishor (born 1977) is an Indian political strategist He is a Public Health expert by training and had formerly worked with the United Nations for eight years.

 He came to wider public attention when Citizens for Accountable Governance (CAG), an election-campaign group he conceptualized, helped the Narendra Modi-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) win an absolute majority in the 2014 Lok Sabha election.

 In 2015, Kishor and some members of CAG regrouped as and started the Indian Political Action Committee (I-PAC) and started working for the 2015 Bihar assembly election.

 Working closely with Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, a longtime rival of Modi, Kishor helped Kumar's "Grand Alliance" rout the BJP's alliance 178–58.

 On 19 November 2015, a few days after the Bihar victory, the "Economic Times" revealed that Kishor was in talk with the Indian National Congress, to run its campaign for the crucial Uttar Pradesh assembly election in 2017.

 On 2 March 2016, Huffington Post broke the news "Fabled Electioneer Prashant Kishor Signs Up For Rahul 2019".

 It went on to reveal that "quietly, Kishor has become a de facto advisor to Rahul Gandhi.

 It is not just one or two states, Kishor is now likely to be designing the Congress campaign strategy in every state election until 2019, except the ones to be held in April–May.

 Every state election until 2019, whether the Congress wins or loses them, will be used by Kishor and his team to give the Congress party a fresh new look, that of a resurgent party".

 Simultaneously, Kishor will also be co-authoring a book on elections with journalist Sankarshan Thakur.

 On 2 March 2016 Juggernaut announced that in his book, "Prashant Kishor will dissect what influences Indian voters today, their aspirations and what they now demand of their leaders".

 He is also facing stiff competition from Mr Anjani kumar singh of halchal media who is considered by many as the main curator of the bjp's victory in the UP.

 He is said to be the silent face of the Bjp's victory in many other elections