THE IBCT

The IBCT is an independent record label owned by Kris J. Kraus, based in Southern California and started in 2009 by Walter Adam "Dirty Walt" Kibby, II, of Fishbone, and Roderick Byron "Rodcore" Palmer of the band Year Of The Dragon along with their then manager, Kraus, an attorney, who previously was the road manager for The Incredible Lance Diamond and manager of Rick James's Original Stone City Band, among others.

 The label released the first full-length by YOTD, Blunt Force Karma (Produced by Darryl Swann with Kraus and Kibby as Executive Producers), and the sophomore release by Dirty Walt And The Columbus Sanatation (produced by Kibby with Kraus as Executive Producer).

 Subsequently, the label reissued the debut of Seattle's experimental jazz quartet Uncle Pooch, Conduct Unbecoming.

 The label showcased at South By Southwest in 2009, 2010, and 2011.

 Kibby and Palmer left the label in 2010 after YOTD's tour in support of Blunt Force Karma (to date BFK is YOTD's only full-length release and most likely will remain so as Palmer left the band in 2015), leaving Kraus as the sole owner and operator.

 Kraus then commissioned Uncle Pooch's bassist Shane Smith as the label's Musical Director.

 With Smith providing all musical content and Kraus providing lyrics, artwork, and production the two of the have teamed up to guide the label through its second phase focusing exclusively on underground and uncompromising artists who defy categorization.

 Two more releases by Uncle Pooch, Oneiroprenia (with production by Scott Colburn, Darryl Swann, and Kraus and graphic design by Mike Sparrow) and Sonarchy (produced by Smith and Kraus graphic design by Sparrow) in 2012.

 After a hiatus while Kraus pursued a career as a law professor and Smith worked on demos with various artists the label returned with Smith and Los Angeles underground icon Blackbird contributing a song to the Black Rock Coalition's 25 Year Anniversary Compilation in 2016 at Kraus' urging.

 Smith's band Shane Smith's Karmic Unrest released their debut – "The Ambivalence Of The Scared" (produced by R. L. Heyer and Kraus and mastered by Peter A. Barker) – in 2017.

 Uncle Pooch's final album, "The Comfort Of Violence", and two releases by Headlock are scheduled for release in late 2017.

 The label plans on re-issuing the debut EP by unsung pioneering black rockers Sky Church originally released in 1993 by Kraus and guitarist Mytch Meadows and remastered by Barker in 2018 for the releases 25th anniversary.